E-PANCHAYAT USING WEB-DEVELOPMENT
Students – P. Saichandu, Gopi, Anil, Pranith
Under the Guidance of – Mr. B Veeru Asst. professor                                                                                                                                                 
Computer Science Engineering
Head of the department – Dr. Bandi. Krishna
Balaji Institute of Technology and Science, Warangal, Telangana-506132

 
ABSTRACT
With the incline of modern-day computing and technology, most businesses and establishments may adapt and embrace these changes as it improves their work, lives, and provides more accurate and reliable results in the end and the miss using of Funds and the citizens not being aware of schemes and the ongoing work progress of their respective areas. The E-PANCHYAT is a comprehensive digital plat¬form designed to facilitate the management and development of rural communities and for digitalizing the manual data into a proper manner and which facilities for the local governance system in the future days and as well as proper usage of the available resources and  giving awareness about the latest schemes and reporting the problems in their respective panchayat about the miss use of funds or any other issues in the gram panchayat and user can able to raise a complaint against the head of the village or any authorized person who is miss using the login access of the system. The project heading towards a digital Telangana by updating the each and individual resources and items in the village and the E-PANCHYAT evaluates in different phases based on the requirement of the Village and it consists of population data, family details, schemes, funds, resources and more over it also includes the literacy rate and voters count of the Villages and the data of villages are monitored by the higher authorities. This front-end of the project is developed using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and back-end technologies like PHP and MySQL database.
1.	INTRODUCTION	
	          The Grama Panchayat is the basic level of Local Government Institutions in India (LSGIs). Though Panchayats have been in existence for a long period of time, the present system clearly shows a different from the past in respect of powers, functions and financial resources. The Government of India (GOI) enacted (1992) the 73rd amendment to the Constitution to empower Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) as local self-governing institutions to ensure a more participative governing structure in the country. GOI further entrusted the implementation of various socio-economic development schemes, including those enumerated in the Eleventh Schedule to the Constitution, to the PRIs. The States, in turn, were required to entrust these local bodies with such powers, functions and responsibilities as to enable them to function as institutions of self-governance and implement schemes for economic development and social justice.
          There are some functions which can be best performed by the local authorities only. Such functions need local attention and adaptation to circumstances. Hence, the consolidation and reorganization of local bodies have been felt at all times. Scientific consolidation and reorganization of local bodies calls for not only the provision of more efficient structure for them but also providing them with sufficient finance to discharge their duties efficiently and to overcome the needs of the Gram Panchayat and give some specific powers so that they can maintain their own data which can be further updated to the authorized authorities with proper documentation and updated in their respective servers and these finance and powers should be started from the Base Level (i.e., Gram Panchayat’s) to the state levels and in Telangana it has a sequence of structure starting from Gram Panchayat’s, Mandal’s, District’s, and at the state levels.
          The Gram Panchayat’s give some powers like to plan their own implementation programs for the development of Local Bodies under the supervision of some higher Authority at mandal level and with the permission of the higher authority they should proceed for further step. The local citizens should able to view the respective details of their registered area and update their details at their door level without any cost and be able to resolve any type of issues in their data, This system improves the development of rural areas and maintain the data easily and implementation of schemes become more easy without any undulations or abstractions and each and every scheme will be implemented up to the requirements to full fill the initiation of the scheme, This helps to support the Local Government which supports the higher authorities.
2.	LITERATURE SURVEY
          According to the previous surveys it’s have been leading to the miss use of Rural or Village Resources and also an miss use of funds from the government which leads to the insufficient funds and back-ward cause for rural development and which leads to an adverse impact on the rural people and the schemes which are implemented for the benefits of rural people is not working as much as efficient and more evenly if someone needs a document or any other details form the Panchayat they should move to panchayat and collect necessary data which cause of loss  of tine and a lot of physical work has to be done  to overcome this problem the we have introduced a system called E-PANCHYAT which is also called as Self- Governance and which stimulates the user to directly access for the documents and any other requirements from the Gram panchayat.
3.	EXISTING SYSTEM
	          Several Systems have been developed for the Panchayat but there is a lack of details between the authorized user and the respective committee for the data updating or any other requirements. The existing system deals with the Building Permission’s, Layout Permission’s, Building Mutation, Property Tax and Trade License and several other Permissions, schemes and services by the Government. But the system is capable of viewing the gram panchayat details and the schemes implemented in the respective Panchayat and many more other details are not accessed by this system. If some details have to updated by the user in the database or respective authority the user needs lot of permissions and signatures and documentation uploading and manual work also and moreover it results in waste of time and it’s take more time to update the details in the respective server. In the previous systems it requires huge documentation work and manual work also and the user gets only conformation document or certificate from the respective authority but there is no visibility of the respective user data.
         In conclusion, there are individual websites and systems to view the details of a user and requires a lot of documentation work for editing of the user details which is of more time taking process and lengthy process which results an irregular output to the user and confusion among the details provided to the user.
4.	PROBLEM STATEMENT
	          To develop a user-friendly website which can supports the local self-governance and maintains each and every data more accurately and maintains the Population, Literacy Rate, Number of voters in the respective panchayat and the updating of details becomes easy and fast then the existing systems, which is more efficient for the development of panchayat Systems and rural development activities.
5.	PROPOSED SYSTEM
	          The proposed system is E-PANCHAYAT for the digitalization of the Village system which enables the end user to access the respective details of the user and details of family also. This system enables for the self or local governance of rural areas which maintains the data of the individual panchayat and the schemes implemented in the respective panchayats and the funds released to the respective panchayat. In addition to these it also enables the user to view and update the respective details and updating the family details and other authorized details is done in the panchayat itself only without any risk, manual work it requires only supporting documents for the updating of the details and with the help of this system the manual work is reduced and accuracy of the data is increased.
          In conclusion, this system provides all services of the panchayat at a single platform it reduces the stress and manual work for the user for the updating of the data and views the entire schemes and as well as respective schemes for the panchayat and the sanctioned amount or funds released for the respective panchayat are visible and the user can report the problems in the panchayat related to the work or any other issue.                    
          The user or citizen can raise a complaint against any officers or heads of the panchayat with proper proofs and details. By this system adaption the rural development becomes easier than the previous system and accessing of data becomes easy and awareness about the schemes and other activities becomes easy and fast.
6. STRUCTURE OF E-PANCHAYAT
          The E-PANCHAYAT system follows a specific structure in accessing and maintenance of data. The sequence of accessing the services by Main login, followed by state level, district level, Mandal level, Village level and in detail structure as follows,
	         In State level there are limited number of logins for different departments and respective department can access the related to it. After State, District level there is only Two logins revenue Officer login and Collector login of the respective District. 
        At Mandal level there are two types of logins one is Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) login and the other is MPTC login where MPTC has limited access to the data and modification of the data, MRO has full access to the data and modification of data with supporting documents.
       The final and Base level is Village level where there are different types of services which are Sarpanch login, Admin login, Ward Member login, User login, Family registration, Update of family details, Report a Problem, Schemes, Members of the Village(Sarpanch, Ward Members, Admin’s List) and moreover sarpanch can edit the details of the user and family registration details and if any corrections in the details of the user family registration the user can modify the details of the user but can’t modify the details of the family but the user can update the details of the family at the admin or at the respective sarpanch by accessing through their FSC number in registered at the time of family registration and update the details by providing the proper supporting documents to the respective admin or sarpanch of the village.	
7.	CONCLUSION
          In conclusion the project E-PANCHAYAT has been developed for the development of the rural areas and management of funds which manages and maintain the accurate data about the funds and the village data and population data, Literacy rate, Number of voters, Family details and in this we have used languages like HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, PHP and servers like XAMP & WAMP and PHPMYADMIN database for back-end storage of data.
